what's up guys so i figured i'd do a few
videos talking about my
incremental writing plugin for obsidian
this first video is going to be
concerned with the basic functionality
of the plugin
so for example adding things to the
queue reviewing your repetitions and so
on
the second video is going to talk about
more advanced stuff so for example
having multiple cues
loading different cues and changing the
scheduling options
and then finally i'm also going to do a
video where i actually show you how to
practically use the plugin
by giving you a demonstration of
actually how i use it
my daily writing if you've never heard
of incremental writing before
i definitely recommend that you go and
check out an earlier video that i did
where i explained a little bit more
about the ideas behind incremental
writing
and for example how it relates to
incremental reading
so what i'm going to do now is just jump
straight into things so
once you've downloaded the plugin
probably the first thing you're going to
want to do is add some stuff to your
incremental writing queue
there are actually a number of ways you
can add notes to the queue i'll start
with the simplest ones
so for example if i go to just some
article
in the file explorer if i right click on
that file
there's an option to add the file to the
incremental writing queue
so if i click on that you'll see that it
pops up with this dialog
and i can choose which queue i want to
add the file to
i can also choose the first repetition
date which is the first date i want to
review
this note i can also choose the priority
and i can also write some notes
if i want to remember actually why i
added this thing to the queue
one cool feature is that if you have the
natural language dates plugin installed
you can use natural language to specify
the first rep date
so for example i can just type tomorrow
or next week and it'll work
and you can see that the incremental
writing queue is literally just a
markdown table
with a little bit of yaml metadata at
the top
so i can activate preview mode to make
it more readable
and you can see that it's just got a
link to the notes
the priority any notes about why i added
this thing to the queue
it's got the current interval and
finally it has the date of the next
repetition
so as i just mentioned at the top
there's a little bit of yammer metadata
relating to how the repetitions should
be scheduled
if you're interested in that i'll leave
a link in the description to the github
page
which goes into more detail so there are
also a couple of other ways you can add
individual notes
to the queue so if i just go to one of
the notes over here
and you can see that there's a command
to add the note to the queue
and you can see it's just the same as
you saw before i'll hit add to key
and you can see that another repetition
has been added to the queue
so there's one more method that you can
use to add individual notes to the queue
if you activate the add note to queue
through a fuzzy finder command
you can see that it will allow you to
add any of the notes
in your obsidian vault to the
incremental writing queue
and just like before i can hit atticu
so if you're someone with an enormous
vault of notes it's going to be pretty
tedious if you're just adding
every single note one by one to your
incremental writing queue
so there are a couple of ways that you
can just bulk add notes
to a queue for example if you go over to
the file browser and
right click on a folder and
hit add folder to incremental writing
queue
you'll see that you can book add notes
to the queue so for example i can choose
a queue
i can choose the minimum priority the
maximum priority
and the earliest rep date and the latest
rep date and essentially what's
happening here is that
i can adjust the interval between which
the notes will be spread
when i add them to the queue so for
example if i set the minimum priority
to 10 and the maximum priority to
20 all of these 60 notes will be spread
at even intervals between the minimum
priority of 10
and the maximum priority of 20. in the
same way you have the earliest rep date
and the later update so if i say
the earliest rep date should be today
and the latest rep date should be next
week
each of these 60 notes will be allocated
evenly between
each day between today and next week so
i can add all of those to the queue
so the incremental writing plugin also
allows you to use the output of a search
as input into an incremental writing
queue so for example if i just do a
simple search
for example path articles
you can see that in the search pane
there's this new button
add to iwq if you click on that
you can see that again we have the
option to choose a queue
do your minimum priority max priority a
list rep date and latest for update
this is probably one of the most useful
features because you can
combine the operators in a smart way so
that you only add those things that you
really want to add
to the queue and you leave all the rest
out so now we have a bunch of stuff
added to the queue
it's time to start reviewing the
repetitions
so to access the current repetition you
just need to click
on the current repetition button and
that will essentially just teleport you
to the repetition with the highest
priority that is also due to be reviewed
on this day
so once i'm done with the repetition i
can continue on to the next repetition
by using the next repetition command
so now if i go back to the queue i can
show you how the previous
repetition was scheduled after i hit
next repetition
so you can see that the interval and the
next repetition date
for the last repetition have both been
increased
if there's a repetition that you've
decided you don't want to continue
reviewing over time
you can dismiss it from the queue using
the dismiss command
the dismiss command just removes the row
corresponding to that repetition
from the markdown table finally there's
also the ability to add
individual blocks to the queue so if i
go to the add block to cue command
and hit add to queue you can see that a
block ref has been generated
and if i go to the queue and scroll down
you can see that the block reference
link
has been added to the queue and
scheduled for me
okay so that's it for the first video
that should be all you need to get
started with the plugin
if you're interested in going deeper for
example uh having multiple queues
changing the scheduling options and
other things
you should definitely check out the next
video in the series i hope this was
useful i hope you get some value
from this plugin and i'll see you in the
next video